Introduction
Development cannot take place if any nation or society leaves the women behind. But violence against women is increasing worldwide at an alarming rate. According to a statistic of World Health Organization, one in every three women is being tortured or sexually harassed worldwide by their partners. All forms of violence against all women and girls in the public and private spheres, including trafficking, sexual and other types of exploitation such as rape, sexual harassment, acid violence, physical and mental torture should be eliminated.  The stats are always scary when it comes to the number of instances of sexual or physical violence against women in India at any given hour, day or year. In such a critical condition it has become necessary to take proper measures. There are several organisations that work towards helping women combat this constant threat of violence, and work towards making our country safer for women by initiating policy level changes and conducting awareness campaigns that aim to educate the public. Such organisations usually cover one or more of the following objectives:-
●	Rescue women and children from unsafe or violent environments and rehabilitate them at a safe temporary or permanent shelter.
●	Provide vulnerable women with financial support or vocational training and help them become financially and socially self-reliant.
●	Provide legal advice to help victims of sexual or physical violence understand her rights and initiate the judicial process to attain justice.
●	Provide counselling and psychological rehabilitation.
Previously Adopted Measures
1.) Launched by a Dutch startup
Appalled by the growing incidents of crime against women, a Dutch start-up designed a wearable bracelet that sends out alerts to friends, family, as well as the police, during a crisis. The device uses a low-energy Bluetooth connection to sync to an app on the wearer's smartphone. The app lets the wearer decide who she wants to notify in case of an emergency- friends, family members, the police, or a group of users who agree to field emergency calls from other wearers. The app also uses the smartphone’s microphone to record the incident and subsequently transmits the wearer’s location along with the audio recording of the incident to the police.
2.) Compulsory Self defence
Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi pitched for compulsory self-defence training for girls from the age of seven years even at the expense of saying “goodbye” to regular subjects so that she can be able to “hit back” if somebody dares to misbehave with her. Self defence as a mandatory subject in elementary and primary schools is still being debated upon in India but has been very successful in some parts of the world.
3.) Shake2Safety
The user just needs to shake their smartphone or press the power button four times to send an SOS text or call to the pre-registered numbers. It works even when there’s no internet connection. Moreover, users have the ability to activate or deactivate the option of shaking the device to send alerts.
4.) One stop crisis or the Nirbhaya Centres
Now let’s focus on our country India , where violence against women has been increasing at a very drastic rate. The victim is often shunted from hospitals to police stations to courts without any kind of sensitivity to her traumatised state of mind and sometimes even denied the rights to treatment and to file a FIR. In light of these factors, the Justice Verma Committee, set up after the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape case, called for establishing One Stop Crisis Centres to cater sensitively to the immediate medical, legal, and psychological needs of the survivors. The Union ministry of women and child development initially planned 660 one-stop crisis centres across the country. But later, the government slashed the budget and sanctioned only 36 centres to be built on a pilot basis. This centre also has a 24-hour helpline service for distress and rescue calls. Emergency response and rescue services with linkage with existing mechanisms like 108 emergency service is expected to lead to timely help for victims.
5.) Helplinelaw.com
Launched in the year 2000, Helplinelaw.com offers online legal services. The organisation initially catered to the Indian market and then moved into the international market lawyers in 2004. It now has presence in 217 countries. “Helplinelaw” focuses on providing legal information, contact information on qualified and credible lawyers and law firm references to the users in any part of the world it caters to. All information available on this portal is in easy-to understand language focussed on laymen rather than the lawyers. They claim to screen all lawyers and law firms before listing them. Women who are in need of legal help for say dowry harassment or divorce are likely to find the discrete nature of a legal consultation by phone or email very reassuring, especially in a volatile home environment.
6.) Bhartiya Grameen Mahila Sangh
Bharatiya Grameen Mahila Sangh or BGMS (National Association of Rural Women India) was founded in 1955, and is a non-political and non-sectarian national organisation with branches all over India, in 14 states and union territories. It is affiliated with the Associated Country Women of the World (ACWW), the world’s largest organisation for rural women, which in turn is a consultative body for such reputed international organisations such as 
UNESCO, WHO, and ILO. The goal of BGMS is the welfare, and empowerment of women and children. The organisation creates Mahila Mandals (women self help groups) across villages in its areas, for women empowerment and education. BGMS has a short stay home for destitute women who have been ill treated by their husbands, in- laws or other family members, and find themselves without any home. They are provided with vocational training and jobs to support themselves. Elderly women, who have nobody to look after them, can also find a home in BGMS. They are provided with food, medical care, and recreational facilities.
Why Women Safety?
Crimes against women has increased drastically in the past. About 10 % of crimes in country are those of women abuse. Women make up 2/3rd of illiterate population. A women is raped in every 20 minutes in India. Of 1.3 billion people who live in absolute poverty 70% are women. With such stats we need a safe India for women to live in. Violence towards women also destroys family stability, which has adverse effects on the next generation. It compels a woman to leave her job which decreases the growth of a family and increase health expenditure. A women have equal hand in development of nation as men. Crime against her lays an adverse impact on the society. It hinders the development and growth of nation. 
Violence towards women destroys family stability, which has adverse effects on the next generation. It compels a woman to leave her job which decreases the growth of a family and increase health expenditure. So, at any cost proper steps should be taken to eliminate all forms of violence against women. Otherwise Sustainable Development Goals can't be achieved.
Solution Format
Mandatory
The solution should consist of a presentation (either ppt or pdf) which explains the core idea behind your solution.
Optional
If your solution in technology based we highly recommend that you also submit a prototype code which demonstrates what you plan to do. 
Evaluation Criteria
Your solutions will be judged on the following criteria:-
a)	Inclusiveness – 30 points
b)	Simplicity / Implementation / Applicability – 20 points
c)	Originality – 20 points
d)	Multidisciplinary – 20 points
e)	Clarity in presentation – 10 points
A note from the judges panel:
Safety and security issues are the same for all women but the management system needs to be inclusive in nature i.e.
1.)	Semi literate to illiterate women
2.)	Literate women
Mobile solutions are great except that Mobile penetration in India for women is only 44.1% hence our 56% are already out of it as you are creating solutions for the 44% only! Even if they own mobiles the usage patterns are limited .
a) No smart phones hence no connect to Internet
b) Even if they are able to connect the literacy levels are poor for them to read and decipher what is to be done.
Points To Note
 
1.)	Please make sure that your presentation has a slide which contains your registration number, your name, etc.
2.)	As your solutions will be evaluated in your absence, we request you to make your presentation as informative as possible and if possible include a F.A.Q.s section in your presentation.
3.)	If you are attaching any sort of prototype code along your presentation make sure that you write what exactly is the code supposed to do and how to execute it.  
4.)	Having a code based solution does not implies extra points or any sort of advantage upon other solutions.
